[Music]
what country holds annual bathtub races
and has a prepared landing pod for UFOs
also it has a place where there are so
many snakes that they look like
spaghetti on your plate still no idea
hey okay I'll give you a huge hint this
country produces more than 70% of all
maple syrup in the world yep you nailed
it this awesome country is Canada and
here are 50 cool facts about this place
Canadians are famous for saying sorry
all the time even when the other person
is clearly in the wrong in fact they
apologize so much that an apology Act
was passed in 2009 it allows saying
sorry in court without being afraid that
it'll sound like admitting your guilt
approximately 90 percent of Canada's
land area is uninhabited even though
it's bigger than the US it has only 11%
of America's population at 4860 miles
the trans-canada highway is almost the
longest national highway in the world
beat only by australia's highway 1 also
when you travel along the trans-canada
highway and reach Quebec province pay
attention and you may see the most
cheerful town in the world st. Louis do
ha ha yep just like that with 2 Haws and
2 exclamation marks the town even has a
Guinness World Record for most
exclamation marks in a town name it's
illegal for polar bears in Canada to
break into houses and steal food so if
you see one rummaging around in your
fridge call the cops
you can laugh all you want but there's
even a polar bear jail in Churchill
Manitoba bear troublemakers stay there
until they get relocated Canada received
its own flag in 1965 almost 100 years
after it became a separate country in
1867 people in Nanaimo British Columbia
are fans of a very exciting kind of
sport since 1967
they've been organizing and
participating in bathtub racing these
unusual competitions take place every
year and involve bathtub boats and a lot
of fun several of the most popular
superheroes such as Wolverine and
Superman were created by Canadians thank
you so much guys the most dramatic
weather change happened in Canada On
January 10th 1962 the temperature in
pincher Creek one of the windiest places
in the country jumped from minus two
point two degrees to seventy one point
six degrees Fahrenheit within a couple
of hours Canadians love hockey as they
say
these people breathe eat and live hockey
but despite their passion for the game
Canada's national sport is lacrosse one
area in the Hudson Bay region has less
gravity than any other region on the
planet so if you want to jump higher and
weigh less that's the place to be one
creature on Mars was named gander after
a town in the Newfoundland and Labrador
province of Canada to honor its space
research efforts how about this one
Santa Claus is Canadian that's what
Canada's immigration Minister announced
in 2012 so maybe that's why his famous
outfit is made up of mostly two colors
red and white which are the national
colours of Canada
now even though the Stanley Cup which is
the National Hockey League trophy has
its own bodyguard hockey champions still
managed to put all kinds of things in it
I mean they drink chocolate milk from
the poor thing
in 1930 Canada's hockey team did so well
that they were put straight through to
the final game they didn't even have to
take part in knockout rounds and in the
end they won the gold
Canada's territory occupies a whopping
three thousand eight hundred fifty-five
million square miles which makes it the
second largest country in the world
after Russia for comparison Canada is
bigger than the whole European Union and
15 times larger than France the biggest
European country Ottawa the capital of
Canada isn't the largest city in the
country with a population of about 1
million people it comes second to
Toronto the capital of the Ontario
province almost 3 million people live in
that city Canada is officially the most
educated country in the world with 56%
of its population having some kind of
post high school education degree in st.
Paul Alberta they built the first
landing pad for UFOs well I guess you
can never be too prepared the platform
weighs more than 130 tons and contains a
time capsule which has to be opened in
2060 7 in a 2018 happiness report Canada
was ranked number 7 I mean even despite
all that cold the number of Canadian
lakes is mind-blowing the country has
more than 3 million lakes which is more
than the rest of the world combined
besides all these lays contain 20% of
all the fresh water on earth
Okanagan Lake is supposedly the home of
Ogopogo a mythical creature similar to
the one that's said to dwell in Loch
Ness Gauntlet forests cover more than
40% of Canada's land territory but New
Brunswick province is especially for
estate trees cover 85% of its territory
walking in the forest without a compass
doesn't sound like fun anymore Canada
has the world's longest coastline if you
decided to walk along the Canadian coast
without stops it would take you more
than four and a half years no wonder
since you'll have to cover about 150
1,000 miles in Quebec they produce 77%
of all the maple syrup in the world and
Canadians do love this sweet pancake
topping on the other hand who doesn't by
the way rumor has it that somewhere in
Canada there's a strategic maple syrup
reserve about ten percent of Canadians
are either vegetarians or vegans that
means 2.3 million vegetarians and
850,000 vegans most of these people are
under 35 the national animal of Canada
is the beaver by the way it's Canada's
largest and the world's second largest
rodent the capital city of Canada Ottawa
is at the top of the list of the world's
coldest capitals Canada is home to the
biggest number of polar bears in the
world see for yourself
out of approximately 25 thousand left on
the planet fifteen thousand live in the
Arctic regions of the country Canada
straddles not one or two but six time
zones they are Newfoundland time zone
Atlantic Time Zone Eastern Time central
time zone mountain time zone and the
Pacific time zone
hey timeout the lowest ever recorded
temperature in Canada was minus eighty
one point four degrees Fahrenheit whoo
tap water in Canada is as good as
bottled water what's more some people
are sure that it even tastes better
while driving at Northwest Canada be
prepared to see license plates shaped
like a polar bear by the way there are
so many bears in Canada that in some
areas drivers leave their cars unlocked
why you ask it's done to make sure that
people have a chance to escape from the
bears by hiding inside a car the largest
mall in the u.s. is the Mall of America
but did you know that its owners are
Canadian wait what if you're a fan of
narwhals go to Canada there you can buy
a coin with this unicorn whale on the
other hand be ready to part with 300
bucks
since the coin is made of gold or if you
want to play big you can buy a Canadian
1 million dollar coin no kidding
this largest coin on the market is made
up of 220 pounds of 99% pure gold but
hurry up there are only five such coins
in the world and only one is for sale
ever heard the word Loony yeah well in
Canada this is in fact a form of
currency loonie and Tunie as well the
loonie is a $1.00 gold coloured coin and
the Tuni is as you might guess a $2.00
one Canadians love their famous
interjection a what's more it's listed
in the Canadian Oxford Dictionary as a
real valid word the first British
Columbians used fish instead of candles
kulagin also known as candle fish is so
fatty that when you dry it and string on
a wick it'll burn brightly
in Canadian McDonald's you can buy the
McLobster sold exclusively in this
region now if your biggest fear is
snakes never ever visit the narcissi
snake dens in Manitoba there are more
snakes in that place than in any other
part of the world thousands of red-sided
garter snakes are concentrated in that
relatively small area in Saskatchewan
you don't wear a hoodie you put on a
bunny hug true every spring the coast of
Newfoundland and Labrador witnesses a
stunning iceberg parade when massive
chunks of ice break off glaciers and
make their way through iceberg Valley
entrepreneurs harvest these mini
icebergs to use them in the production
of alcoholic drinks and skincare
products Wood Buffalo National Park
created in 1922 to protect the largest
herd of roaming wood bison in the world
is larger than Switzerland one of the
most popular dishes in Canada is poutine
crispy fries covered with cheese curds
and rich gravy Hey
what's not to like Canadians eat more
macaroni and cheese than any other
nation in the world you didn't see that
coming did you by the way the Canadians
have been crazy about this dish
ever since 1845 Canadians are some of
the friendliest people in the world you
probably can't find a rude Canadian even
if you try really hard
lots of Canadians speak French as their
first language and Montreal is the
second largest french-speaking city in
the world after Paris of course pretty
cool eh say have you heard any other
curious facts about Canada let me know
down in the comments if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share with a friend but hey
don't go anywhere just yet we have over
2000 cool videos for you to check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video click on it and enjoy stay
on the bright side of life